Aquincum Museum
---

?http://www.aquincum.hu/en/ ? Visit the official website of the museum for more information.

#Description of the museum

The Aquincum Museum is very informative. It is great to see the authentic artifacts. It was made beautifully by the Romans, and some of the items were even worn. The museum also has interesting gold coins which can be found on the top floor of the museum. The museum in District 3 and can easily be reached on the H5 from Budapest. It has been open since 1894 and every year welcomes thousands of visitors through its gates. If you want to learn about Hungary, why not start with what it was like almost 2,000 years ago?

---

#Description of The Exhibitions

The Roman Empire was one of the greatest in history. During this time, Hungary was a province of Rome which was called Pannonia and Aquincum was the capital of the lower part of this province (Lower Pannonia) next to the Danube. Today, the ruins of Aquincum remain and left if you are interested in Roman history, you can’t miss this. There is a mixture of permanent and temporary displays, and there are also workshops that you can take part in to learn even more about the fascinating Roman history. Enjoy the collections of mosaics, jewelry, pots and even an organ inside the museum, and leave wanting to find out even more about the Roman history scattered around the city.  

#Key Information

##What are the ticket prices?

?http://www.aquincum.hu/en/latogatoknak/hasznos-informaciok/jegyarak/ ? We direct you to the Museum's website for the latest infromation.

##Is parking available? 

Yes, it is available, as well as places to leave your bicycle.

##How can you get there using public transport?

There are many public transport links (buses, H5 and even train).

##Is there a gift shop?  

It is located next to the cash desk where they also sell books. Not a proper gift shop though.

##Is there a café?

No, there’s no café available, although there is a vending machine.

##Is there a guided tour? In which languages?

Yes! There are English, Hungarian, Russian, Finnish, Romanian and Greek tours available.

##Is there an audio guide? In which languages?

Unfortunately, there is no audio guide.

##Is a map or brochure available? In which languages?

Maps are available for free at the entrance. There are also leaflets with extra information inside the recreated house, and plaques scattered around the ruins explaining what they are and what they used to be. The guided tour is also available in English as well as Hungarian. 

##Are pictures allowed? 

Yes! To be polite, be sure to ask first before taking a picture on a tour. There are lots of beautiful items that you will want to take pictures of. 

##Is it accessible for people with disabilities?

There are lifts for people with wheelchairs to use to access the main museum building and to go down to the outside ruins. However, when you are exploring the ruins, the floor is quite uneven and bumpy and may be difficult for those with disabilities to navigate. However, guided tours are offered on an accessible route from Tuesday to Friday upon prior booking at regisztracio@aquincum.hu. The tours are free of charge for visitors with physical disabilities and wheelchair-using visitors and 1 companion per person.

#Personal Impressions

"I think that the museum is fantastic. It is interesting to learn about a part of Hungarian history that you often don’t consider. Be sure to check out the beautiful gold jewelry in the main museum building." 

"I believe this museum is a great experience for people visiting Budapest as it is a really enjoyable walk around the park whilst also learning about the place. It is a little bit outside of the city and it may be a little uncomfortable to get to with public transport depending on where you reside in."

"In my opinion, this museum is very interesting, however the tours are noticeably short. On the other hand, the staff members were very friendly and kind. They provided a lot of details about each artifact. We saw a lot of ancient Roman buildings, containing a lot of objects such as oil lamps and things. Yet, it is located next to a busy road filled with cars and trains passing by makes it a little unenjoyable, and workers being loud could make it inaudible."

"Overall, the museum is a great representation of what the the ancient city of Aquincum was like. I learnt lots of new information about the geography and lives of the ancient Romans. This information includes facts such as Aquincum was the capital city of Pannonia, which was a region in the Empire. However, the museum is located next to a main and busy road, which takes away from the authenticity of the experience."
 
Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

If you are visiting the museum in the summer, be sure to bring sunglasses and a hat. Most of the museum is outside and there is not much shade. If you bring a water bottle, there are also plenty of fountains where you can fill up your water for free (as the vending machine can be quite expensive!). The guided tour is also well worth the money, and you can learn lots of interesting information from a trained professional. You can buy tickets at the door, and there are different prices depending on your age. There are lockers where you can lock up your bags for free and there is also parking and space for locking up your bikes outside the main entrance.

#Images

!aquincum_1.png:A soilder's helmet from the time period.

!aquincum_2.png:A mosaic from the time period.

!aquincum_3.png:Picture of ruins of ancient buildings.

!aquincum_4.png:Coins from the Roman period.

!aquincum_5.png:A map of the anceint civilisation.

!aquincum_6.png:Picture of ruins of ancient buildings.

!aquincum_7.png:A room depicting the livestyles of ancient people.

!aquincum_8.png:Another room depicting the livestyles of ancient people.

!aquincum_9.png:Tools used by the people who lived in the Roman Empire.

!aquincum_10.png:A sculpture of a Roman soilder.

!aquincum_11.png:Ancient Roman art (people carved in stones).

#Top 5 Things to Check Out

When visiting the Aquincum Museum in Budapest, there are many things to check out. However, we have narrowed it down to these top 5 must-see attractions:

1.	With the guided tour you will have the chance to visit a replica of a Roman household. The staff have kept the house and its contents as original as possible, and it portrays the life of a Roman household really well. 
2.	The outside area varies from remainders of original housing and infrastructure as well as vitrines with ancient artifacts and objects displayed.
3.	The tour guide explained that they also have gladiator performances/combats to offer on certain dates during festivals which are supposed to be very entertaining and realistic.
4.	Another top 5 attraction is the inside part of the museum with mosaics and more artifacts and ancient objects, as well as the ancient gold jewelry on display.
5.	If you get the chance to visit the museum and if you have some time to spare it would be worth checking out the amphitheater nearby.
