Example Museum
---
#Description of the Museum

Guidance (DELETE ONCE COMPLETE): What is the name of the museum and what can you see there? Where is it located? When was it opened? Why is it an important museum and why should someone visit it? Word Limit: 150-250 words

#Description of The Exhibitions

Guidance (DELETE ONCE COMPLETE): Briefly describe the museum’s permanent exhibition - what is it about and what does it contain? Howis the exhibition organised? Is it by time / by artist or by a different theme? What are the main or most important pieces in the exhibition? Are there any temporary exhibitions? How long are they running for? Word Limit: 150-250 words
---
#Key Information

Guidance (DELETE ONCE COMPLETE): Keep the questions and add the information below:
● What are the ticket prices?
● Is parking available?
● How can you get there using public transport?
● Is there a gift shop?
● Is there a café?
● Is there a guided tour? In which languages?
● Is there an audio guide? In which languages?
● Is a map or brochure available? In which languages?
● Are pictures allowed?
● Is it accessible for people with disabilities?

#Personal Impressions

Guidance (DELETE ONCE COMPLETE):
What did you like about the museum? Why might other young people find it interesting? Each
member of the group should write a sentence/short paragraph. Use the following format:
“[Your impressions]….” (your initials)
Word Limit: about 50 words per person

#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

Guidance (DELETE ONCE COMPLETE):
Are there any tips or suggestions you would like to make for future visitors? Eg., booking tickets in
advance for a popular museum? Bringing coins to use the cloakroom? etc.
Word Limit: 100-200 words

#Top 5 Things to Check Out

Guidance (DELETE ONCE COMPLETE):
As a group, agree on your top 5 things from the museum and add them here.
Feel free to create your own top 5 lists (e.g. Top 5 Selfie Places…).

#Plus

Guidance (DELETE ONCE COMPLETE):
Anything else you might want to add. Be creative.

!museum_large.png:Museum Large