Holocaust Memorial Centre
---

?https://hdke.hu/en: Official Website

#Description of the Museum 

The museum is about the tragedy of the Holocaust and how it affected Hungarians at the time, and about Hungarian history. The Holocaust Memorial Centre is located in the IX district in Budapest, and memorialises the six million people whose lives were taken during the Holocaust. But it mainly focused on the 600,000 Hungarian Jewish victims. The museum was built around a synagogue which was constructed in 1924, and the museum opened in 2004. It is definitely worth visiting because it gives the context on why and how the Holocaust impacted Hungary. It's a good place to explore as it paints a very realistic and accurate picture to base any future knowledge of the Holocaust on. It would be especially beneficial for students of history to visit.

---
#Description of The Exhibitions 

The exhibition is not organised chronologically, but rather by themes. The museum contains a variety of monuments, pictures, and videos. In the beginning of the exhibitions, it talks about the Holocaust and later, more about Hungary, and their involvement in the Second World War, and Hungarian Jewish victims. Some important pieces or parts of the exhibition are the videos, because it helps the visitor understand what happened. In addition, the videos also contain English subtitles, making sure non-Hungarian speakers understand as well. The exhibition showed some belongings of Jewish victims at the time. This is important and helpful because it highlighted the stereotypes that existed at the time, and how they still do impact certain ways somebody may view Jews. The tour or a general visit to the exhibition could take you anywhere between 1-2 hours, depending on the individual and their pace. 

#Key Information 

##What are the ticket prices?

?https://hdke.hu/en/about-us/visitors/tickets/: We direct you to the offical website for the most accurate information.

##Is parking available?

The parking for the exhibition is minimal but there is a small place in front of the museum for a few cars to park. Although, there are a few parking places like public parking near the exhibition.

##How can you get there using public transport?

Since it is on the Pest side there are a few public transportation options like trams such as the 4 and 6 which stop near the museum or you can use the newly refurbished M3 metro 
line.

##Is there a gift shop?

No, there is no gift shop in the exhibition.

##Is there a cafe?

No, there is no cafe in the exhibition.

##Is there a guided tour? In which languages?

Yes, there is a guided tour throughout the exhibition with a clear, detailed explanation of all parts, in Hungarian, English, German, Italian and Russian. You need to book it in advance, though.

##Is there an audio guide? In which languages?

There are plenty of headphones connected to information in each part of every room with a clear description of each photo. The languages are also kept simple with Hungarian and English voices.

##Is a map or brochure available? In which languages?

Yes, at the entrance, there are several leaflets describing one part of the tour with detailed information about the exhibition. Furthermore, they have a map imprinted on the wall as well as at the entrance with numbers in each room representing the different topics of the Holocaust. The leaflets are in Hungarian and English.

##Are pictures allowed?

People are not allowed to take pictures inside the exhibition because of graphic photos of specific events. However, guests are allowed to take pictures outside of certain monuments like the synagogue.

##Is it accessible to people with disabilities?

Of course, the exhibition is wheelchair-friendly and accessible with an elevator included inside for people who cannot take the stairs.

#Personal Impressions

"Young people would find this interesting because it is not just numbers and statistics. It allows the visitor to truly understand the depth of the Holocaust by using names and photos of the people involved."

"This museum is different to what I am used to seeing because it is more realistic." (LJ)

"This museum is really visually captivating with all the flyers, all the pictures, the very graphic photos and videos." (NR)

"I like that there are a lot of varied historical items and that the museum is interesting because you encounter the history of how things have changed over time." (AM)

"If you would just Google this information, you would not truly understand this issue of the past, but when visiting this museum, you will understand." (VP)

"The museum is interesting because it has items that you wouldn't normally see on the internet, as well as things that you would never have encountered, for example the propaganda posters used by politicians both inside and outside of Hungary." (YKS)

"A lot of the pictures and videos are uncensored so you really see what happened. It is not sugar coated so you really can sink into the meanings behind the exhibitions." (SG)

#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

Before coming to the museum, there are various things you should keep in mind. First, the museum is open from Tuesday to Sunday, with entry from 10am to 6pm. There are two ways of buying tickets; online via the webpage or at the entrance of the exhibition. In general, it is not very crowded, so you will not need to buy tickets in advance to visit. Something crucial to remember is that the ticket office closes at 5pm, so be careful with that part of the planning. Lastly, the museum is very graphic, mostly at the end, so if you do not like that type of material, try to skip it or instead just visit the synagogue.

#Images

!holocaust_memorial_centre_1.png:The names of Hungarian Jews that were victims. In Judaism they leave rocks to show remembrance or respect to the deceased.

!holocaust_memorial_centre_2.png:The Tower of Lost Communities is covered with different settlements in Hungary where Hungarian Jewish communities existed. 

!holocaust_memorial_centre_3.png:The Pava Synagogue is a large-scale, Hungarian synagogue building designed by Lipot Baumhorn in the first half of the 20th century.

#Top 5 Things to Check Out 

1.	Look at the photographs towards the end of the exhibition, even if they are difficult to see. This is because they truly help you understand what happened to these people.
2.	Check out the glass chairs in the Synagogue because they represent how fragile human life can be.
3.	Watch the lines on the walls change as you move through the exhibition.
4.	Read the names on the wall surrounding the courtyard.
5.	Examine the 6 pillars around the courtyard, which represent the 6 million people who died in the Holocaust.
