Literary Museum
---

#Description of the Museum

Location and accessibility:
Located in the centre of Budapest, the Museum of Illusions is convenient to access by the Metro line M2 or other public transport means. It took approximately 1 minute of walk from Deak Ferenc ter, and it is aligned with the main street. Discounts will be provided for disabled people with their companions (one assistant only). When this article is being written, the Café is under construction, but it is expected to open in near future.
Opening Hours:
Monday-Thursday, Sunday: 10AM–7PM.
Friday – Saturday: 10AM– 8PM;

Museum Basics:
The tour (guided) takes approximately 1-1,5 hours to complete. The Museum exhibits a splendored collection of illusions, both classic and modern. The focus of the museum is to demonstrate the effect of optical and dimensional structures on people’s impressions to show how easily our predefined conceptions can be deceived. The design of the museum deliberately manipulates the subconscious instinct of humans and exploits the vulnerabilities in an astonishing way. Visitors will experience the distorted reality of gravity, size and movement through the carefully designed artwork intended to deceive human senses. This encourages the audience to reconsider their automatic perception regarding most of their intuitions of geometry and architecture.

---

#Description of The Exhibitions

There are many amazing illusions and this is definitely not a museum to miss. There are a lot of great displays – here is a description of some of them. 

Zoetrope:
It is an object, with squares on it, that looks like it is lagging, as the squares go into each other. In fact, the effect is caused by the light going on and off fast, and the whole thing rotating.

Head on a Platter:
Here is how this illusion comes to life: You first make your way around a corner and climb through a wall to pop your head through a hole in the table and, there you go, you are on a dinner table ready to be eaten.

Corridor:
This exhibit looks like a drawing with a corridor of a museum on it. However, when you move where you look at it, the corridor in the picture moves, following your eyesight as you move.

#Key Information

##What are the ticket prices?

Adult: 4900HUF
Student: 3400HUF 
Family (2 adults 2 kids): 14500HUF 
Family (2 adults 1 kid): 11300HUF
Disabled people and their caretaker: 3400HUF each 
Under 5: free 
Tour guide:8000HUF

##Is parking available?  

Unavailable 

##How can you get there using public transport?

Address: H-1065 Budapest, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky út 3.
How to get there: 1 min 👣 from Deàk Ferenc Square (Metro lines M1, M2, M3) 
Vörösmarty Square 6 min 👣 

##Is there a gift shop?  

Yes, at the end of the museum 

##Is there a cafe?  

Currently under construction

##Is there a guided tour? In which languages? 

Yes. Available in Hungarian, English and Romanian 

##Is there an audio guide? In which languages? 

Unavailable 

##Is a map or brochure available? In which languages? 

Yes. Available in English and Hungarian 

##Are pictures allowed?

Not only allowed, but also mandatory 😊.

##Is it accessible for people with disabilities? 

Yes with discount on ticket.

#Personal Impressions

Scarlett:
I enjoyed most of the illusions with still life like the pictures on the wall and ones where you had to measure 2 things on a canvas that look different lengths but are actually the same. 

Bebe
I thought it was very interesting and fun. Especially when you had to lay down on the floor and you looked like you were hanging from a building was pretty fun and when you had to walk through a corridor where the walls were moving was very interesting as you felt unbalanced and a bit dizzy.

Zhian
The Museum exceeded my expectations greatly, as the designers demonstrate great capability in depicting artwork that would distort the sense of reality towards the audience. The museum is concise, well-structured and gives a tremendous impact on people’s instinct or intuition in shape and structure.

Youssef
As a person who is very deeply interested in mind games I can surely say this Museum was the one that has peaked my interest more than any other, it really makes you think about what reality is

Yuxuan
The illusions in this museum are quite interesting, allowing you to not only see some interesting patterns, but also learn more about how the brain and eyes perceive things, which was quite eye-opening

Yingtao
It’s better than I thought! There are some illusions that can only be seen or felt when you are there! Especially the spinning room! The walking path isn’t actually rotating, but you do feel like you are in a washing machine when you walk through it! 

Ms Atkin
I was so impressed with the layout of the museum and the variety of exhibitions. There were lots of geometric patterns and lots of opportunities to see different mathematical concepts!

#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

•	Definitely have your phone with you! Since most illusions can be shown in a photo, it’s a great place to take excellent pictures! However, do enjoy your journey during the way. It’s best to feel those illusions yourself! 
•	In addition, it’s better to come with someone. There are some illusions which require more than one person (usually two) to create. Above that, some illusions can be only seen from others. For most of the exhibitions it is nice to have someone to take pictures of you and vice versa.  
•	It’s a good place for school trips – lots of Maths!

#Top 5 Things to Check Out

Best for pictures:
1.	Building illusion
2.	Reversed room
3.	Ames room (one person is very big while the other is small)
4.	Beuchet chair illusion
5.	Symmetry room

Best illusions to see:
1.	Vortex tunnel (epilepsy warning)
2.	Infinity room
3.	Holograms
4.	Trick of the eye
5.	Impossible rotating cubes – Zoetrope
6.	Kaleidoscope

# Images

!illusions_museum_1.png: A picture of one of extraordinary illusions. 

!illusions_museum_2.png: An illusion that can be seen differently from different angles. 

!illusions_museum_3.png: An illusion that can be seen differently from far distances. 

!illusions_museum_4.png: A painting. The circle inside is not moving. 

!illusions_museum_5.png: An image of holographic projection technology. 
