The Ludwig Museum
---

?https://www.ludwigmuseum.hu/en? Official Website

#Description of the Museum

The Ludwig Museum is an art museum and is home to the largest American pop art outside of the United States of America. It is located near Rákóczi bridge on Komor Marcell Street, 1. There are many Ludwig Museums around the world (for example in Austria, Cuba, and Germany). The one in Budapest was opened in 1989, and then was moved to its current location in 2005. It was named after a German couple called Peter and Irene Ludwig, who were art collectors. Peter and Irene Ludwig are still considered Germany’s most important collector couple. They dedicated all their free time to the arts and by the 1960s, they had one of the most remarkable contemporary art collections in Europe. It is an important museum to visit because it displays a wide range of artworks by many different artists (including Pablo Picasso). People should visit it if they would like to know more about artists who are not so famous, and learn about their techniques and their ways of creating art. 

---
#Description of The Exhibitions

Currently, there are a few temporary exhibitions. They are quite informative and unique, and it takes about 1.5 hours to cover all the museum artworks and history, which symbolize and explore various ideas and events.
The first exhibition worth mentioning is “Everything is Up in the Clouds” by András Lengyel, and it displays clouds in different forms. Its goal is to show the ‘negative and positive’ sides of clouds and what they made the artist feel. This exhibition is planned to stay in the museum for around 4 months (starting from the 3rd of February until the 28th of May). 
Another exhibition found in the Ludwig Museum is the “Time Machine”. It was first exhibited on the 1st of September 2020, and should stay there until the 31st of December 2023. All the pieces of artwork are somehow connected to time itself (both in the past and the future). Although there is not any actual time machine, the goal is to metaphorically bring people back or forward in time. 

#Key Information

##What are the ticket prices?

?https://www.ludwigmuseum.hu/en/online-tickets? Oficial Price List

##Is parking available?

Yes, visitors can park on nearby streets for free or in Mupa multi-level underground parking (400 HUF/hour)

##How can you get there using public transport?

Trams 2 and 24 will take you to the museum at the stop “Müpa Nemzeti Színház H”. Buses 55,54 and 224 are also accessible at the same stop. You can also get there using the inter-city rail H7.

##Is there a gift shop?

Yes, there is a gift shop in the museum.

##Is there a café?

Yes, a café can be found in the building.

##Is there a guided tour? In which languages?

There is an easy-to-understand guide tour in both English and Hungarian.

##Is there an audio guide? In which languages?

The audio guide can also be purchased in both English and Hungarian.

##Is a map or brochure available? In which languages?

A map is available for visitors in both English and Hungarian.

##Are pictures allowed?

Yes, pictures are allowed in the museum.

##Is it accessible for people with disabilities?

The entire museum building (entrance, floors, exhibition rooms) is easily accessible for disabled people.

#Personal Impressions

“The tour was highly informative and introduced us to various forms of artwork as well as the history and thought process behind them. It is definitely not a ‘boring’ art museum as it has many interesting pieces and will have your attention the whole time”- Pardheev

“I have a positive opinion on the tour of the whole museum: the guide was professional and patiently explained the history behind each piece of artwork or craft. The way these masterpieces have been collected, and the variety of topics these works have been based on, have really impressed me. The museum also features a countless number of artists, which is inspirational to others!” - KV

“I found it refreshing that the guide was perfectly understandable in English. Also, both the temporary and permanent exhibitions were incredibly interesting and had a wide variety of types of materials and styles, which is an upside in contemporary art as a whole”-AB

“I liked that the tour guide did not talk about each painting, but only the key ones in the exhibitions. I also liked that she told us about how and why the paintings were created and by whom. I found it interesting that not all the artists whose paintings were displayed were world-famous, so we got to know more about them.” – NK

“My favorite part of the museum was the “In the Clouds” Exhibition. I was eager to learn about its meaning and symbolism, and the guide was very thorough and informative. We also got to learn about the building’s rich history and the delicate process of transporting and, if necessary, restoring artists’ works.” - KG

“The tour guide showed us the main important parts. They also explained how long it took the artist to make the art and who made it. I quite liked that they showed us the elevators they use to transport the larger paintings to the exhibitions.”-SK

“Overall, I really enjoyed the trip to the Ludwig Museum. There are multiple exhibitions, each with their own purpose. The tour guide was extremely helpful as she explained the meaning behind the artwork, and was very helpful, answering any questions we had. I believe that visiting this museum is a good idea if you enjoy spending time in an artistic environment.” - NE

“In my opinion, the museum is quite a nice place to be around when you are stressed. It has many artworks and pictures to look at, and for me, it calms me down and teaches me more about people, culture, the past etc. I highly recommend to people who need to get clear their minds” - MM

#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

The museum was not very crowded in the morning, right after opening. However, later more visitors arrived at the museum, so it is recommended to come at 10 o’clock in the morning (the opening time of the museum). Also, it is interesting to get a guided tour as they give key information and context to the artworks that may not be displayed or a bit hidden. It is important to note that the guide does not talk about each individual piece but rather about the key pieces in each exhibition so keep it in mind when purchasing the tickets. Overall, the guided tour is perfect for tourists because it is an immersive experience that allows visitors to fully dive into the exhibition. If you would like a guided tour, you must book it in advance by filling out a form with general information about the group on the website.

#Images

!the_ludwig_museum_1.png:An image of a sculpture from the museum.

!the_ludwig_museum_2.png:An image of an artwork from the museum.

!the_ludwig_museum_3.png:An image of an artwork from the museum, containing hands in different perspectives.

!the_ludwig_museum_4.png:An image viewable in the museum, on which a man is falling backwards.

!the_ludwig_museum_5.png:A painting of a women, with speech bubble.


#Top 5 Things to Check Out

1. 	Museum Shop
2.	Picasso’s artwork
3.	Andy Warhol’s artwork
4.	The time machine exhibition (if still available)
5.	Any temporary exhibitions they may have