Medical Museum
---

#Description of the Museum

The name of the museum is Semmelweis Museum, it is located at Apród u. 1 – 3, 1013, and is near the river, which is easily accessible. You could get to the Semmelweis Museum easily by using public transport. This museum was opened in 1965, after the death of the famous doctor Semmelweis. This museum is important as it shows the history of Hungarian doctors (especially the most famous one Semmelweis), and it should be visited often because people should appreciate the fact that he was the one that started the Hungarian evolution of medicine. After he graduated as a Physician he stayed in Vienna, Austria for seven years working in a very big hospital and treating many people. 
---

#Description of The Exhibitions

The permanent exhibition is a portrayal of Petofi Sandor's life: the first room shows his start in life as a young butcher's son, his years as an unsuccessful travelling actor, and his famed years as a revolutionary soldier-poet. It is organised into chapters, detailing his years of elite education, and how moving to Pest enhanced his connections and allowed him to get published. The rest of the exhibition is arranged around themes: Landscapes, Bonds, Sacrifice, etc. 

In fact, we learned that he was the first Hungarian writer to subside entirely from his poetry, selling all but one of his approximately 1000 poetic works. There were fascinating insights into the history of his depictions: how no image ever appears the same and how his cult following after the mysterious circumstances of his death in the freedom fight of 1848 led to him embodying the representation of a national hero. You can learn more about how Petofi's personality resulted in his radical beliefs and his tumultuous relationships, his opposition to compromise and his belief in using violence to enact equality. 

The exhibits here are punctuated by many important objects, such as portraits and busts showing his 'genius' curly hair, a video showing the Hungarian Alföld, his wedding ring, his written manuscripts, and even the pipes his wife controversially smoked. All these relics are a testament to his influence on the national psyche, shown in his power over popular thought, both within and beyond his lifetime. There are several rotating temporary exhibitions, shown in many upstairs rooms, as well as a gorgeous outdoor garden with the archive hidden beneath.

#Key Information

##What are the ticket prices?

Full price:700 HUF   Students: 350 HUF

##Is parking available?  

Yes: two minutes' walk

##How can you get there using public transport? 

19/41/56A tram, number 5 bus

##Is there a gift shop?  

Yes, they sell books about medicine 

##Is there a cafe?  

None inside 

##Is there a guided tour? In which languages? 

Yes, English and Hungarian 

##Is there an audio guide? In which languages? 

There is a guide in English.

##Is a map or brochure available? In which languages? 

None

##Are pictures allowed?

Yes

##Is it accessible for people with disabilities? 

It is not accessible for people in wheelchairs 

#Personal Impressions

Abigail: I liked that the guide explained everything in English so there was no need for a translator and that he spoke about the evolution of medicine from ancient Egypt to the 20th century. The beginning of the tour was about who Semmelweis was and why he was known as the savor of mothers. Then we went on to see the many ways sick and injured people were taken care of till the early 18th century. The second was about the more reliable treating techniques so the first x-ray, vaccine, pharmacies, optical glasses... I mostly liked Semmelweis's office with his family's portraits.  

Chaitali: I liked that the guide explained nice and deep about Semmelweis. It was easy to understand because the guide was explaining in English. Before we started exploring the museum, he talked about Semmelweis. They told us that in the 18th century they use to make holes in peoples’ brains and they used to store eyes in some kind of tin! We saw an x-ray which looked interesting and got to know how medicine was developing. Then we saw the office of Semmelweis there we saw Semmelweis younger photo, his parent's photo and grandparent’s photo.

Chenxi: The museum started with a timeline of how medicine is administered in pre-historic, ancient Egyptian, ancient Greek and more recent times. In the second section we learnt about Semmelweis’ life. He was known as the Saviour of mothers for his discovery of sterilization. Although his thoughts were denied by many elder doctors during his lifetime, the discovery was proven to be correct after his death. I especially enjoy the section where we can see the 19th century’s medical equipment and the development of medicines over time. 

Oliver: The main thing that I liked about the Museum, is the timeline. I found it very interesting to learn about because the things that Semmelweis invented, we are required to use daily in order to stay healthy. I think other people will find this Museum interesting for similar reasons. They might also like the artifacts from the 19th Century and the Paintings.

Kelly: The museum itself is not at all extensive, however the guided tour and everything displayed was very informative and interesting. What I find most interesting are the tools used to conduct the surgeries and the treating techniques in the 18 and 19 hundreds and specially the ancient beliefs of illness and wellbeing.

Reshvanth: This museum is absolutely fantastic! Everything here in this museum is original and interesting. It would be really fun for young children, as there are many old relics and items. The organs and clinical knives grab the visitor's attention and make it even more engaging to view. The tour guide spoke in English which allowed me to clearly understand the life of Semmelweis.


#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

+ Opening hours from Mon-Fri: 10am-6pm, don’t come earlier than opening hours or later because you will have to wait outside the museum. 

+Bring a phone to take pictures if you wish.

+The museum is not busy from 11am-2pm, so you don’t have to book tickets in advance

+ You do not have to bring money to buy souvenirs, there is nothing to buy inside.


#Top 5 Things to Check Out

+ His old furniture and bookshelves

+ Dental equipment e.g. the changes to orthodontic chairs 1900s vs 2000s

+ Equipment used to conduct surgeries, such as brain injuries and minor infections

+  Information about Ignaz Semmelweis 

+ His work alongside other discoveries by colleges of his


# Images


!medical_museum_1.png: A picture of inner view.
!medical_museum_2.png: A picture of a dental equipment. 
!medical_museum_3.png: A picture of an similar equipment.  
