Museum Of Fine Arts
---

?https://www.mfab.hu/? Offical Website

#Description of the Museum 

The Museum of Fine Arts is located on Hősök tere (Heroes’ Square) in the city center/on the Pest side. It was opened in 190, with hundreds of artworks. The two main architects who designed the museum are Albert Schickedanz and Fülöp Herzog.  The museum has a great number of artworks from different eras and countries, and not to mention, it is the most prominent museum in Hungary. 

---

#Description of The Exhibitions  

There are five permanent exhibitions – Ancient Egypt, Classical Antiquity, European Art 1250-1800, European Sculpture 1350-1800 and Art in Hungary 1600-1800. The exhibition of the Old Masters’ Gallery include artworks mainly from Italy, Germany, Netherlands and Spain, many of them are religious paintings, statues, or altarpieces from former churches. The five exhibitions are organized by time periods and different art movements. Also, throughout the year, they organise two major temporary exhibitions and several chamber exhibitions as well. The temporary exhibitions are usually up for about 3 months.

Let us zoom into the 14-17th century European art. The artworks created in the late Middle Ages were mostly aimed to decorate churches or for private devotion. The backgrounds were usually covered with gold but designed in a “simple” way. Since most of the people did not speak Latin, the Gothic artworks had a very important role in delivering the message of the church. The Renaissance brought by great changes in art. The artists sought to capture nature as they saw and understood it- They used linear perspective to create depth, light and shadow to convey plasticity, anatomical knowledge to make their subject matters look more naturalistic, and depicted emotions according to the humanist approach. Even though the period is the same, art took its own ways in each country . While Italy’s art is based on beauty and harmony, Germany is interested in the character and the emotions, showing them directly through faces and moral actions. During the Renaissance, the focus shifted from god to humans.  

Baroque started at the beginning of the 17th century. Many of the artworks were to revive the power of the church, while others to  decorate people’s houses, like landscapes and still lives. 

#Highlights of the artworks

!fine_arts_1.png:The Mystic Marriage of Saint Catherine of Alexandria (1421). By Giovanni dal Ponte (Italian art. The background is painted in gold and there is no sense of space.)

!fine_arts_2.png:Saint Stephen Protomartyr (1490-1493) By Domenico Ghirlandaio (The background is painted in bright colours. Shades and lights are more realistic.)

!fine_arts_3.png:Virgin and Child with the Young Saint John the Baptist (1508) By Raffaello Santi

!fine_arts_4.png:Ill-matched Couple: Old Man and Young Woman (1522) By ID. Lucas Cranach (German (Saxon) art. Shows direct emotions and gives a strong moral message )

!fine_arts_5.png:Portrait of a Woman (1626) By Nicolas Eliaesz. Pickenoy (Getting more and more realistic)

#Key Information

##What are the ticket prices?

?https://www.mfab.hu/tickets/? Ticket prices on the offical website

##Is parking available?

Yes, there is an underground car park on the other side of the square.

##How can you get there using public transport?

Metro line 1, line 72 trolley, line 105 bus, all stop at Hősök tere

##Is there a gift shop?

Yes, there is a gift shop, where you can buy books as well as cards, and other items with famous paintings printed on them. It also has a kids' corner.  

##Is there a café?

Yes, there is the Fine Art Bistro, which is a café as well as a self-service restaurant.   

##Is there a guided tour?  

The guided tour needs to be booked at least one week prior to the visit. It is available in English as well as in some other languages. 

##Is there an audio guide?  

Audio guide service is available to the permanent exhibitions for a fee of HUF 1200 in English, French, German, Italian, Russian, Spanish, Japanese, and Korean.  

##Is a map or brochure available? 

Yes, the English version can be downloaded prior to the visit from the homepage and there are free maps on paper as well at the entrance as well

##Are pictures allowed?

Yes, you are allowed to take pictures in the permanent exhibitions, without flash.  

##Is it accessible for people with disabilities?

Yes, there are elevators.

For families adventure kits  can be rented for 1-3 children to the permanent exhibitions. While the whole family is having fun during teamwork and brainstorming, the interactive kit also develops childrens’ skills: orientation, visual memory, and vocabulary.

#Personal Impressions

I liked the part where the exhibitions are divided into time periods. I could see the difference in how it is painted and compare each piece of art by time period and by country. I want to go back and look around more slowly :)      (R.N.) 

The Museum of Fine Arts had thousands of pieces of artwork, from well-known to less known. The Romanesque Hall was the most interesting part due to its fascinating history and abundance of glistening gold. It was a wonderful experience. (M.T)
             
I liked how there were several types of art, from Italian art all the way down to the ancient Egyptians. The Ancient Egyptians one was my favourite because you were able to take a digital test on the board and there were wrapped Egyptian bodies. (M.L) 

The Exhibitions themselves were displayed in a beautiful way. As we travelled across the rooms, we were transported back in history, through different time periods. It was remarkably interesting to see the differences and similarities between each period. Overall, it was a broad experience and taught us a lot about artwork in the Middle Ages, in Europe. (A.R) 

I really liked the museum because it was interactive and informative. There are new art expositions every couple of weeks, which is amazing. These expositions are not only impressive, but they are varied. Overall, I would totally recommend the Museum of Fine Arts to anybody who finds art and expositions interesting. (M.R) 
 
I enjoyed the museum since it housed an extensive collection of artworks, including sculptures and paintings. I particularly like the Egyptian section because it contained many interesting items, including mummies and other ancient artefacts. The exhibition of European culture at this museum also teaches visitors. This arrangement was excellent, and I can assure you that there was one artwork that really blew my mind since, while it appeared to be a photograph, it was a painting. (S.B)

#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors 

I would recommend any future visitors bring a bag with any essentials, such as a camera/phone, jacket if it is cold (due to air conditioning) . The art is beautiful, so remember to take pictures. 
There is parking close to the museum, but I would recommend going by public transport, as the station in half a block away from the museum. If you are a tourist, I would recommend you see the languages available for tours beforehand, so you know if it is possible to listen to audio tours or read brochures. Speaking about tourism, I would also recommend checking the dates of a certain exhibition. Buying the tickets beforehand is a great way to see the fine pieces of art right away.

#Pictures

!fine_arts_6.png:Picture of the museum from outside.

!fine_arts_7.png:Inside picture of a hall in the museum.

!fine_arts_8.png:Image of an interactive diagram in the museum.

#Top 5 Things to Check Out

Top 5 recommended places to visit:
1.	Ancient Egypt 
2.	The Romanesque Hall
3.	The Baroque Hall
4.	Netherlandish paintings (European Art 1250-1800)
5.	Italian paintings (European Art 1250-1800)
