National Museum
---

?https://mnm.hu/en? Offical Website

#Description of the Museum

Nemzeti Múzeum
Budapest, Múzeum krt. 14-16, 1088
There is a large open park surrounding museum.
The museum was founded in 1802 and is the national museum for the history, art, and archaeology of Hungary, including areas not within Hungary’s modern borders e.g.: Transylvania.
On your visit, you will learn about Hungary’s modern history, understand its past regarding kings, the Habsburg empire, WW2 and the communist era.
---

#Description of The Exhibitions

There are three key parts to the museum: the coronation room, the archaeology section, and the modern history section.

Modern history organized in chronological order, from BC, to Kings to Habsburg empire, to 1848 revolution, to WW2, to the 1956 revolution, to Communist rule, to the fall of communism in Hungary.

The most important piece is the Coronation Room. The coronation mantle is very cherished and important to the museum.

There are regularly temporary exhibitions such as the photography exhibition. 


The exhibits here are punctuated by many important objects, such as portraits and busts showing his 'genius' curly hair, a video showing the Hungarian Alföld, his wedding ring, his written manuscripts, and even the pipes his wife controversially smoked. All these relics are a testament to his influence on the national psyche, shown in his power over popular thought, both within and beyond his lifetime. There are several rotating temporary exhibitions, shown in many upstairs rooms, as well as a gorgeous outdoor garden with the archive hidden beneath.

#Key Information

##What are the ticket prices?

?https://mnm.hu/en/entrance-ticket? Offical Prices on the website

##Is parking available?  

There is no car park available

##Is there a gift shop?  

Yes

##Is there a cafe?  

Yes 

##Is there a guided tour? In which languages? 

Yes, English and Hungarian 

##Is there an audio guide? In which languages? 

For visitors who are blind or visually impaired, an audio player featuring a so-called talking map is also available from the Museum shop. 

##Are pictures allowed?

Pictures are not allowed in the coronation room. Flash photography is not allowed anywhere.

##Is it accessible for people with disabilities? 

There are braille notes around. Some stairs which may hinder disabled but not often.

#Personal Impressions

The museum was interesting in the sense that our guide provided a detailed explanation of key paintings, extracts or objects. All questions were answered. The museum also featured interactive segments such as touch screens where games could be played. – Huba

The Bronze Age bones were cool and interesting. The bones looked mesmerising and learning about them was fascinating -Pranav

I play the piano and I love Beethoven’s music, so I found it interesting to look at the piano which belonged to him
-Nicole

Coronation Room (rich history)
The coronation mantle was really precious, and it was honestly breathtaking. I really wishes I have a picture of it, but I can never forget the gorgeous mantle
-Srihitha


#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

Do not bring a bag unless necessary as you will have to deposit it.