Literary Museum
---

?https://mnm.hu/en/entrance-ticket? Offical Website

#Description of the Museum

The Petofi Literary Museum lies in the city centre. The museum can be found at Karolyi utca 16., Budapest. The Petofi Literary Museum was established in 1954. At first glance, you might assume this is more of a library than a museum, and in that you would be wrong. The variety of interactive activities were surprisingly informative.

In the Petöfi exhibition, you can learn about his friendships, see his manuscripts and first drafts. The museum is named after Petofi Sandor, a significant figure in Hungarian history, the reason this is its name is because Petofi was the first historical figure they started collecting. This museum is a must-visit because many things you see here cannot be found anywhere else.
---

#Description of The Exhibitions

The permanent exhibition is a portrayal of Petofi Sandor's life: the first room shows his start in life as a young butcher's son, his years as an unsuccessful travelling actor, and his famed years as a revolutionary soldier-poet. It is organised into chapters, detailing his years of elite education, and how moving to Pest enhanced his connections and allowed him to get published. The rest of the exhibition is arranged around themes: Landscapes, Bonds, Sacrifice, etc. 

In fact, we learned that he was the first Hungarian writer to subside entirely from his poetry, selling all but one of his approximately 1000 poetic works. There were fascinating insights into the history of his depictions: how no image ever appears the same and how his cult following after the mysterious circumstances of his death in the freedom fight of 1848 led to him embodying the representation of a national hero. You can learn more about how Petofi's personality resulted in his radical beliefs and his tumultuous relationships, his opposition to compromise and his belief in using violence to enact equality. 

The exhibits here are punctuated by many important objects, such as portraits and busts showing his 'genius' curly hair, a video showing the Hungarian Alföld, his wedding ring, his written manuscripts, and even the pipes his wife controversially smoked. All these relics are a testament to his influence on the national psyche, shown in his power over popular thought, both within and beyond his lifetime. There are several rotating temporary exhibitions, shown in many upstairs rooms, as well as a gorgeous outdoor garden with the archive hidden beneath.

#Key Information

##What are the ticket prices?

?https://pim.hu/en/node/4006727? Ticket prices on the offical website

##Is parking available?  

If you ask reception she will give you information about it 

##Is there a gift shop?  

Yes

##Is there a cafe?  

No

##Is there a guided tour? In which languages? 

Yes English and Hungarian

##Is there an audio guide? In which languages? 

No

##Is a map or brochure available? In which languages? 

No

##Are pictures allowed?

Yes

##Is it accessible for people with disabilities? 

Yes (lift + toilets)

#Personal Impressions

"A relatively small, but informative museum that covers the life and works of Petofi with interactive rooms which makes it good for families to visit and fun with friends too. A guide is available in 2 languages making it accessible for tourists. It is easy to get to if you use public transportation but there's not many parking spaces available."(AN)

"I found the museum informative of the history of poets in Hungary during the 19th and early 20th century. It was also quite interactive which brought in a lot of fun into the mix of knowledge that I learnt during this experience. I think it would be very suitable for people who are interested in the history of Petofi during 19th century Hungary and poetry."
(S. V.)

"A great experience although it was not my type of museum" - PK

(Meryn)- "I really liked the games at the end and it was all good just, I am not a huge fan of      museums in general." 

"I loved learning about more human parts of this mythical figure, such as his squabble with an Army General over his uniform necktie, leading to Petofi publishing a poem calling him a 'donkey'. We also learned about what makes a historical hero, and how to best present a historical collection." - ED

Lena(LG) -  I think the museum is a nice place to visit if you are interested in literature, otherwise it would be quite boring but in my opinion it was quite informative and interesting.

Jack - "A little known Hungarian treasure: the Petofi Literary museum is a total gem"

#Tips and Suggestions for Future Visitors

The guided tour in English is recommended for visitors who do not speak Hungarian, as most of the texts are written in Hungarian. The guided tour is also recommended generally to all visitors as it offers a plethora of information about the museum and Petofi himself. Visitors should come during lunch time (approx 12.00 - 3.00), as it will not be as crowded with people during this time, and try to bring loose change for a locker (100ft per locker for deposit) to put things in when you walk around the museum.

#Top 5 Things to Check Out

●	1- Connections and friendships room - This room showed Petofi's connections and friendships formed throughout his life and had an ego diagram showing how many times people were mentioned in his literary and poetic works
●	2- Interactive games room - Towards the end of the tour, the guide showed us towards an interactive game room in which we played 4 different games
●	3 - Look at the very nice view from outside the window including the gardens
●	4 - Check out the informative guided tours with information about Petofi's life
●	5 - Keep an eye out for quotations from his poems and letters scattered on the walls

# Images

!literary_museum_1.png: A painting of Petofi.

!literary_museum_2.png: A picture of the building.

!literary_museum_3.png: A picture of some sculptures and a painting of Petofi.

!literary_museum_4.png: A poem written into the wall in the museum.

!literary_museum_5.png: An artwork in the museum

!literary_museum_6.png: Another painting of Petofi.

!literary_museum_7.png: A model of a little village in the museum.

!literary_museum_8.png: A poster about March 15 - a special day for Petofi.

!literary_museum_9.png: A picture taken outside the museum.

!literary_museum_10.png: Some more paintings visible in the museum.
